# Google Summer of Code 2024 Ideas List

This page contains a collaborative list of ideas for potential Deno contributors
in the Google 2024 [Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/). Feel
free to submit pull requests with ideas for what contributors could tackle
during GSoC!

## 📚 Documentation

### Moar Tutorials

The Deno runtime has a huge surface area of features, and not enough examples
that show how to put them together. I would love to see contributors inventory
[current tutorials](https://docs.deno.com/runtime/tutorials/hello_world) and
propose a list of additional tutorials that could be added to improve the
coverage and comprehensiveness of the list.

### Bringing Examples into Docusaurus

Currently, Deno has [examples.deno.com](https://examples.deno.com), which is a
great list of code snippets that show common Deno patterns. It would be great if
we could migrate that content to the main
[Deno docs site](https://github.com/denoland/deno-docs/), which uses
[Docusaurus 3](https://docusaurus.io/). We'd want to retain the very efficient
listing style from the examples site, but ideally also take advantage of
Docusaurus' versioning (potentially), search indexing, and sitemap generation.

## 🏃‍♀️ Runtime

### Slim down binaries generated by `deno compile`

The team suspects that it would be possible to further reduce the binary size of
executables created by
[`deno compile`](https://docs.deno.com/runtime/manual/tools/compiler).
Investigate what is making the compiled binaries large, and explore techniques
to slim them down even further.

### Build a mini-Deno in deno_core

Deno requires a lot of dependencies to build, making it tough to iterate on some
core features without waiting long periods of time for builds to complete. We have
started work on a mini version of Deno in deno_core that needs lots of work:
inspector support, a functional REPL, worker infrastructure and more.

### Benchmark Bot

Deno has set of benchmarking tools that run benchmarks of various kinds for us. The
bots need a lot of love to improve the quality of the code, make them more reliable
and add more benchmarks. You'd need to work with Deno APIs, Github APIs and APIs
from various cloud providers.

### Wasm binding generator for Deno APIs

Deno has a large set of runtime APIs. We would like to auto-generate Wasm bindings
for these runtime APIs using existing typings or doc output similar to `web_sys`.
You'd need to work with the Deno CLI and Rust wasm_bindgen toolchain.

### 

## License

MIT
